title: Glowstone 2018.3.0
date: 2018-04-12 12:00
category: news
tags: updates
author: aramperes
email: momothereal.mc@gmail.com
alias: /news/17/index.html

Hi all,

We are releasing [Glowstone 2018.3.0](https://github.com/GlowstoneMC/Glowstone/releases/tag/2018.3.0) today, which is about two weeks behind our monthly schedule. Our team has been quite busy with other
projects and work for most of April. Without further ado, this is the changelog since the beginning of March.

We've had contributions from two first-time contributors, fionera and smcconke. Thank you for your time and effort!

## Additions and Changes

* Updated to Glowkit [1.12.2-R2.1](https://github.com/GlowstoneMC/Glowkit/commit/024fbc21140b9533cb84e323162bff02f0f379fb)
* Added configuration validation for value types (#870) (#869)
* Implemented fire-damage for all entities, and proper bounding-box checks (#888) (smcconke)
* Implemented donkey, mule, and llama inventories (#872)
* Started work on i18n translations (#874) (#883)
* Refactored dependency management to use "compatibility bundles" (#879)
* Added shutdown message to `/stop [message...]` command (#844)
* Implemented slime-chunk formula (#894) (fionera)
* Add `generic.flyingspeed` attribute (#878) (FlorentCarret)
* Replaced a lot of reflective calls with Java 8 references, for optimization (#860)
* Added more unit tests for entities (#863)
* Added unit tests for boss bars
* A lot of refactoring to unit tests

## Fixes

* Fixed an exception when spawning area-effect-clouds
* Fixed an exception when spawning an entity using the implementation classes (`GlowXYZ`)
* Fixed inconsistency with UUID lookups in player profiles (#881) (#882) (#886) (#891)

## Coming Soon

We have a few more pull-requests in queue for review and merge. You may expect these to be ready for the next monthly release.

* Support for PaperServerListPingEvent and Glowkit upstream merge (#880)
* Adapt changes to dependency manager to allow for external libraries and conflict resolving (#889)
* Support for off-hand bow usage (#893)
* More refactoring and implementation for i18n support (#895)
* Enhanced entity physics (#897)

mastercoms is also currently working on updating Glowstone to jline 3.

## Other News

As previously mentioned, we've all been quite busy with other endeavors in the past few weeks. However, we've been looking into a few
para-development subjects such as registering as a not-for-profit organization (*501(c)(3)*) and other licensing issues.

I've personally developed [a plugin](https://github.com/momothereal/gsredis) for Glowstone to replace file-system world storage with a Redis solution, using our recent world-storage API created by Kyureki.
