title: Glowstone 2018.4.0
date: 2018-05-03 12:00
category: news
tags: updates
author: aramperes
email: momothereal.mc@gmail.com
alias: /news/18/index.html

Hi all,

Today we're releasing Glowstone version [2018.4.0](https://github.com/GlowstoneMC/Glowstone/releases/tag/2018.4.0). The previous release, 2018.3.0, was a bit late into April, so this one
is a little shorter than usual. Nevertheless, here is the changelog.

We received contributions from 6 community members, including 2 first-time contributors (jordanmurray and Muqsit).
As usual, we thank you for your effort!

## Additions and Changes
* Enhanced entity physics calculations, fixing some inconsitencies (#897) (XuZhen86)
* Enhanced player throw physics (#901) (jordanmurray)
* Implemented animal feeding and baby growth acceleration (#900) (#907) (FlorentClarret)
* Configuration file changes (`glowstone.yml`)
  * Reorganized library configuration options
  * Removed unused database configuration
  * Implemented `creatures.enable.monsters` and `creatures.enable.animals` settings
* Added ability to download dependencies for libraries defined in the config (#889)
* Added support for Paper's new `PaperServerListPingEvent` (#880) (Minecrell)
* Tweaked and refactored internal i18n usage (#895) (#908) (#909)
* Converted more strings to i18n (#904)
* Various code cleanup and enhanced Javadocs
  * Added an internal utility for tick conversion (#911) (FlorentClarret)
* Updated netty to `4.1.24`
* Moved trove4j from Glowstone to Glowkit

## Fixes
* Players can now place blocks when clicking on signs (#902) (smcconke)
* Fixed bug in ore vein generation (#912) (Muqsit)
* Removed duplicate slf4j binding

## New Project Members
We have 2 new developers / project members in the team: **FlorentClarret** and **smcconke**. Thank you for your valuable contributions!

## New Glowstone Documentation
We have begun transferring our Github wiki to a website called ReadTheDocs. It uses a more advanced markup language, RST, and allows for more styling options. It also allows versioning, which will make it possible to separate documentation between Glowstone releases.

As we are gradually migrating information to the new website, we are planning to enhance documentation to make it easier for new users to take advantage of Glowstone. It is available at [**docs.glowstone.net**](https://docs.glowstone.net/).

That is all for now, see you next month!
