title: Glowstone 2021.6.0
date: 2021-06-30 12:00
category: news
tags: updates
author: mastercoms
email: mastercoms@tuta.io
status: draft

Hi y'all! Long time no see! This is the first Glowstone release in almost 3 years!

First of all, welcome to our new site! Despite the near identical look, we have switched over
to a static site generator, [Pelican](https://docs.getpelican.com/en/latest/) served by GitHub Pages.
We used the opportunity to fix and improve some things, but took care to preserve functionality and form.
As a static site, one of the more notable improvements you will see is faster load times, but there's also been some
touch ups to the layout, styling and perhaps most importantly, we finally have our Javadocs back online!

As part of this infrastructure update, we have also taken the forums offline, due to low use, and possible security and maintenance issues.
Worry not though! All our announcements from both the old site, and ones still stuck on the forums have been migrated to this one.

Now let's get on to the release notes, and then we'll close off with some project news and updates. Since we did not have a changelog for our prior release, 2018.9.0, we will be including its changes in here.

# Additions and Changes

* Added A* pathfinding utils (#924)
* Improved UuidUtils usage (#961)
  * Fixed anti-virus false positive with UuidUtils by switching to FastUUID
  * Fixed a few missing uses of UuidUtils, improving performance
* Added more i18n (#964, #966, #967, #981, #987, #988)
* Added `getMetadata()` to GlowHumanEntity
* Added Guardian/ElderGuardian API (#970)
* Implemented getter and setters APIs for `PlayerProfile` (#980)
* Implemented PlayerLevelChangeEvent (#983)
* Implemented PlayerStatisticIncrementEvent (#984)
* Simplified `prettyPrint(Entity[])`

# Fixes

* Bed fixes (#963)
  * Fixed not being able to sleep during a thunderstorm
  * Added i18n to bed messages
  * Optimized monster check by using EntityManager iterator
* Fixed invalid bed placement (#973)
* Fixed block and boat placement duping in some cases (#976)
* Fixed player profile not resolving UUID data (#978)
* Fixed player profile not using resolved UUID data (#979)
  * This fixes skull data being invalid
* Cleaned up IO i18n (#962)
* Fixed multi-sector region file writing (#965)
* Updated library checksums
* Removed redundant `CommandUtils#isNumeric`, which used `NumberUtils#isNumber` directly

Stuff about 1.13 efforts, redstone-transformer, 1.13-board & bounties, main dev branch now on 1.13
